Blog: Current State of 2019 Third Party Kubernetes Audit (#36971)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-10-03-current-state-2019-third-party-audit.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Current State: 2019 Third Party Security Audit of Kubernetes"
date: 2022-10-03
slug: current-state-2019-third-party-audit
---

**Authors**: Cailyn Edwards, Pushkar Joglekar, Rory McCune and Rey Lejano

> A brand new Third Party Security Audit of Kubernetes, is expected to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A brand new Third Party Security Audit of Kubernetes is expected to be
```

published later this month (Oct 2022). 

In preparation for that, let's look at the state of findings that were made
public as part of the last [third
party security audit of
2019](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-security/tree/main/sig-security-external-audit/security-audit-2019).

## Motivation

> Craig Ingram (@cji) has graciously attempted over the years to keep track of the 

Reviewer: Do we intend to link to this person's GitHub handle?
```suggestion
Craig Ingram (@cji) has graciously attempted over the years to keep track of the 
```

Author: Done

status of the findings reported in the last audit in this issue:
[kubernetes/kubernetes#81146](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81146)

> . This blog post will attempt to dive deeper into this, address any gaps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. This blog post will dive deeper into this, address any gaps
```

in tracking and become a point in time summary of the state of the
findings reported from 2019.

> This blog should also help folks gain confidence through transparent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This blog should also help folks gain confidence in Kubernetes security through transparent
```
just trying to clarify this a bit - are we saying folks should feel confident in Kubernetes security because we are working on fixes to security issues?

Author: This tries to address only improvements that came out of the security audit.

Author: Confidence in kubernetes security overall, would be probably a bit of a reach :D

> communication of work done by community to address these findings and bubble up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
communication of work done by the community to address these findings and bubble up
```

|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1      | hostPath PersistentVolumes enable PodSecurityPolicy bypass                  | [#81110](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81110) | closed, addressed by [kubernetes/website#15756](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/15756)                                                                                                                               |
| 2      | Kubernetes does not facilitate certificate revocation                       | [#81111](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81111) | duplicate of [#18982](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/18982) and needs a KEP                                                                                                                                    |

> | 3      | HTTPS connections are not authenticated                                     | [#81112](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81112) | Largely left as a end user exercise in setting up the right configuration                                                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 3      | HTTPS connections are not authenticated                                     | [#81112](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81112) | Largely left as an end user exercise in setting up the right configuration                                                                                                                                                       |
```

| 23     | Hard coded credential paths                                                 | [#81131](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81131) | closed, awaiting more evidence                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 24     | Log rotation is not atomic                                                  | [#81132](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81132) | Fix needed                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 25     | Arbitrary file paths without bounding                                       | [#81133](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81133) | Fix needed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

> | 26     | Unsafe JSON construction                                                    | [#81134](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81134) | Partially fixed                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer 2: are the details on this in the actual issue? maybe we can link to a specific comment about the partial fix?

Author: @cji I am not confident a specific comment in the issue explains the current state accurately. So the default of commend on the issue to show up to help would still apply here.

Reviewer 2: makes sense - thank you!

| 27     | kubelet crash due to improperly handled errors                              | [#81135](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81135) | Closed. Fixed by [#81135](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81135)                                                                                                                                         |

> | 28     | Legacy tokens do not expire                                                 | [#81136](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81136) | duplicate of [#70679](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/70679) and will be tracked in that issue                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 28     | Legacy tokens do not expire                                                 | [#81136](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81136) | closed, fixed as part  of [#70679](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/70679)                                                                                                            |
```
Looks like the issues this was a duplicate of was fixed 🎉

| 35     | Incorrect handling of Retry-After                                           | [#81143](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81143) | closed, fixed by [#91048](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/91048)                                                                                                                                                  |
| 36     | Incorrect isKernelPid check                                                 | [#81144](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81144) | closed, fixed by [#81086](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/81086)                                                                                                                                                  |
| 37     | Kubelet supports insecure TLS ciphersuites                                  | [#81145](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81145) | closed in favor of [#91444](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/91444) (see [this comment](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81145#issuecomment-630291221))                                           |

## Call to Action

> As is evident many of the 37 findings identified, were fixed by work of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many of the 37 findings identified were fixed by work from
```

our community members over the last 3 years. However, we still have some work
left to do. Here's a breakdown of remaining work with rough estimates on
time commitment, complexity and benefits to the ecosystem on fixing
these pending issues.

{{<note>}}

Anything requiring a KEP (Kubernetes Enhancement Proposal) is considered

> _high_ time commitment and _high_ complexity. Benefits to Ecosystem is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_high_ time commitment and _high_ complexity. Benefits to Ecosystem are
```

roughly equivalent to risk of keeping the finding unfixed which is
determined by Severity Level + Likelihood of a successful vulnerability
exploit. These estimates and values in the table below are the authors' 
personal opinion. An individual or end users' threat model may rate the
benefits to fix a particular issue higher or lower.

{{</note>}}

| Title                                                                            | Issue                                                           | Time Commitment | Complexity | Benefit to Ecosystem |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|------------|----------------------|

> | Kubernetes does not facilitate certificate revocation                            | [#81111](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81111) | High            | High       | Medium               |

Reviewer 3: I'd be inclined to rate the "benefit to ecosystem" here as high. It depends on what exactly we mean by risk of exploit but if we consider that irrevocable credentials don't meet the PCI recommendations for container orchestration security, fixing this would help a lot of Kubernetes cluster operators meet their compliance requirements.

Author: @raesene I see what you mean. Somewhat related, a CSR API Spec update was made since 2019 audit, which allowed setting up of Expiration Seconds to all issued certificates by built-in CA. This feature is GA as of v1.24. Some more info can be found here: [CSR Duration · Issue #2784 · kubernetes/enhancements · GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2784) and official docs are here: [Certificate Signing Requests | Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/certificate-signing-requests/). This in a way reduces the benefits of revoking of certs as they do not last long if you don't want them too. 

With this feature in place now, if you still feel strongly about changing this to a "high", I would be open about it. Just let me know :)

Author: Shared the PR with SIG Auth folks, so they can also chime in on this and other things in the PR

Author: @liggitt any thoughts here? I am inclined to change this to high benefits to ecosystem, based on @raesene comments above. Please let me know if you disagree and would rather keep it low.

Reviewer 4: I think medium is still probably more accurate ... revocation support is not as unequivocal a win for the ecosystem as you might expect. Client certificates are accepted and locally validated by distributed actors, so any revocation mechanism would also have to be distributed, and unavailability of the distribution mechanism would either make the revocation unreliable (if validation fails open), or make use of client certificates less reliable (if validation fails closed). Shorter-lived certificates are now possible, and are still the recommended mitigation for long-lived certificate credentials.

Author: > Shorter-lived certificates are now possible, and are still the recommended mitigation for long-lived certificate credentials.

Thanks @liggitt this was exactly the reason for choosing this to mark as medium from my point of view too :)

Author: @raesene I am resolving this thread by keeping it to a "medium" but keeping this at the top of all "mediums" (infact the top of the table) feels like a good compromise to show the need and importance of this finding.

| TOCTOU when moving PID to manager's cgroup via kubelet                           | [#81113](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81113) | Medium          | Medium     | Low                  |
| Log rotation is not atomic                                                       | [#81132](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81132) | Medium          | Medium     | Low                  |
| Arbitrary file paths without bounding                                            | [#81133](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81133) | Medium          | Medium     | Low                  |
| Services use questionable default functions                                      | [#81138](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81138) | Medium          | Medium     | Low                  |
| Use standard formats everywhere                                                  | [#81140](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81140) | High            | High       | Very Low             |

> | Hardcoded use of insecure gRPC transport                                         | [#81142](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81142) | High            | High       | Very Low             |

Reviewer 2: Do we want to include finding 37 as well? It's still open and in need of a fix but is tracked in a new issue now.

Author: Updated this and switched the call to action from kubelet -> API Server

To get started on fixing any of these findings that need help, please
consider getting involved in [Kubernetes SIG
Security](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-security#contact)
by joining our bi-weekly meetings or hanging out with us on our Slack

> Channel.

Reviewer: Do we want to put a link to the K8s Slack or alternately specify #sig-security as the channel?
```suggestion
Channel.
```

Author: It's part of the linked SIG Contact section. So I think okay to skip, IMO.

In preparation for that, let's look at the state of findings that were made
public as part of the last [third
party security audit of
2019](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-security/tree/main/sig-security-external-audit/security-audit-2019).

## Motivation

[Craig Ingram](https://github.com/cji) has graciously attempted over the years to keep track of the 
status of the findings reported in the last audit in this issue:
[kubernetes/kubernetes#81146](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81146)
. This blog post will attempt to dive deeper into this, address any gaps
in tracking and become a point in time summary of the state of the
findings reported from 2019.

This blog should also help folks gain confidence through transparent
communication of work done by the community to address these findings and bubble up
any findings that need help from community contributors.

## Current State

The status of each issue / finding here is represented in a best effort manner.
Authors do not claim to be 100% accurate on the status and welcome any
corrections or feedback if the current state is not reflected accurately by
commenting directly on the relevant issue.

> 

Author: done
